---
permalink: past/2014.html
weight: 2
---

Bayesian Optimization in Academia and Industry
----------------------------------------------

Bayesian optimization has emerged as an exciting subfield of machine learning
that is concerned with the global optimization of noisy, black-box functions
using probabilistic methods. Systems implementing Bayesian optimization
techniques have been successfully used to solve difficult problems in a diverse
set of applications. There have been many recent advances in the methodologies
and theory underpinning Bayesian optimization that have extended the framework
to new applications as well as provided greater insights into the behaviour of
these algorithms. Bayesian optimization is now increasingly being used in
industrial settings, providing new and interesting challenges that require new
algorithms and theoretical insights.

At last year's NIPS workshop on Bayesian optimization the focus was on the
intersection of "Theory and Practice". The workshop this year will follow this
trend by again looking at theoretical contributions, but also by focusing on the
practical side of Bayesian optimization in industry. The goal of this workshop
is not only to bring together both practical and theoretical research knowledge
from academia, but also to facilitate cross-fertilization with industry.
Specifically, we would like to carefully examine the types of problems where
Bayesian optimization works well in industrial settings, but also the types of
situations where additional performance is needed. The key questions we will
discuss are: how to scale Bayesian optimization to long time-horizons and many
observations? How to tackle high-dimensional data? How to make Bayesian
optimization work in massive, distributed systems? What kind of structural
assumptions are we able to make? And finally, what can we say about these
questions both empirically and theoretically?

The target audience for this workshop consists of both industrial and academic
practitioners of Bayesian optimization as well as researchers working on
theoretical advances in probabilistic global optimization. To this end we have
invited many industrial users of Bayesian optimization to attend and speak at
the workshop. We expect this exchange of industrial and academic knowledge will
lead to a significant interchange of ideas and a clearer understanding of the
challenges and successes of Bayesian optimization as a whole.

A further goal is to encourage collaboration between the diverse set of
researchers involved in Bayesian optimization. This includes not only
interchange between industrial and academic researchers, but also between the
many different sub-fields of machine learning which make use of Bayesian
optimization. We are also reaching out to the wider global optimization and
Bayesian inference communities for involvement.


Invited speakers and panelists
-------------------------------

- [Nando de Freitas](http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/people/nando.defreitas/) (Oxford)
- [Steve Scott](http://stevethebayesian.com) (Google)
- [Daniel Russo](http://web.stanford.edu/~djrusso) (Stanford)
- [<strike>Xavier Amatriain</strike>](http://xavier.amatriain.net/) Aish Fenton (Netflix)
- [Julien Cornebise](http://www.cornebise.com/julien/) (Google DeepMind)
- [Robert Gramacy](http://faculty.chicagobooth.edu/robert.gramacy) (University of Chicago)


Organizers
---------------------

- [Ryan P. Adams](http://www.seas.harvard.edu/directory/rpa) (Harvard University)
- [Zoubin Ghahramani](http://mlg.eng.cam.ac.uk/zoubin) (University of Cambridge)
- [Matthew W. Hoffman](http://mlg.eng.cam.ac.uk/hoffmanm) (University of Cambridge)
- [Jasper Snoek](http://people.seas.harvard.edu/~jsnoek) (Harvard University)
- [Kevin Swersky](http://www.cs.toronto.edu/~kswersky) (University of Toronto)


Program Committee
------------------

We would like to thank our program committee for their great help in reviewing
submissions:

Shipra Agrawal,
Javad Azimi,
Remi Bardenet,
Sebastien Bubeck,
Roberto Calandra,
Marc Deisenroth,
Misha Denil,
David Duvenaud,
Roman Garnett,
Michael Gelbart,
Roger Grosse,
Katherine Heller,
Phillip Hennig,
Frank Hutter,
Emilie Kaufmann,
Nathan Korda,
Hugo Larochelle,
Lihong Li,
Ruben Martinez-Cantin,
Michael Osborne,
Ingmar Posner,
Carl Rasmussen,
Dan Russo,
Bobak Shahriari,
Ziyu Wang, and
Kilian Weinberger.


Accepted papers
------------------

Below are the papers accepted for the 2014 workshop. For papers accepted at
previous workshops [look here](/past/).

- [Heteroscedastic Treed Bayesian Optimisation](/papers/2014/paper1.pdf)<br>
  John-Alexander Assael, Ziyu Wang, Nando De Freitas
- [Pareto Front Modeling for Sensitivity Analysis in Multi-Objective Bayesian
  Optimization](/papers/2014/paper2.pdf)<br>
  Roberto Calandra, Jan Peters, Marc Deisenroth
- [Using Bayesian Optimization for Hardware Design](/papers/2014/paper3.pdf)<br>
Orianna DeMasi, Joseph Gonzalez, Benjamin Recht, James Demmel
- [Improving the Pareto UCB1 Algorithm on the Multi-Objective Multi-Armed
  Bandit](/papers/2014/paper4.pdf)<br>
  Audrey Durand, Charles Bordet, Christian Gagne
- [Bayesian optimization for synthetic gene design](/papers/2014/paper5.pdf)<br>
  Javier Gonzalez, Joseph Longworth, David James, Neil  Lawrence
- [Predictive Entropy Search for Bayesian Optimization with Unknown
  Constraints](/papers/2014/paper6.pdf)<br>
  Jose Miguel Hernandez Lobato, Michael Gelbart, Matthew Hoffman, Ryan Adams,
  Zoubin Ghahramani
- [Predictive Entropy Search for Efficient Global Optimization of Black-box
  Functions](/papers/2014/paper7.pdf)<br>
  Jose Miguel Hernandez Lobato, Matthew Hoffman, Zoubin Ghahramani
- [Modular mechanisms for Bayesian optimization](/papers/2014/paper8.pdf)<br>
  Matthew Hoffman, Bobak Shahriari
- [Differentially Private Bayesian Optimization](/papers/2014/paper9.pdf)<br>
  Matt Kusner, Jacob Gardner, Roman Garnett, Kilian Weinberger
- [Active Pointillistic Pattern Search](/papers/2014/paper10.pdf)<br>
  Yifei Ma, Dougal Sutherland, Roman Garnett, Jeff Schneider
- [Bayesian Optimisation for Machine Translation](/papers/2014/paper11.pdf)<br>
  Yishu Miao, Phil Blunsom, Ziyu Wang
- [Automated Machine Learning using Stochastic Algorithm Tuning](/papers/2014/paper12.pdf)<br>
  Thomas Nickson, Steve Reece, Michael Osborne, Stephen Roberts
- [Dynamic Kernel Selection Criteria for Bayesian Optimization](/papers/2014/paper13.pdf)<br>
  Ibai Roman, Roberto Santana, Alexander Mendiburu, Jose A. Lozano
- [Bayesian Optimization in Interactive Scientific Search](/papers/2014/paper14.pdf)<br>
  Tuukka Ruotsalo, Jaakko Peltonen, Manuel Eugster, Dorota Glowacka, Ksenia
  Konyushkova, Kumaripaba Athukorala, Ilkka Kosunen, Aki Reijonen, Petri
  Myllymaki, Giulio Jacucci, Samuel Kaski
- [An Entropy Search Portfolio for Bayesian Optimization](/papers/2014/paper15.pdf)<br>
  Bobak Shahriari, Ziyu Wang, Matthew Hoffman, Alexandre Bouchard, Nando De Freitas
- [Theoretical Analysis of Bayesian Optimisation with Unknown Gaussian Process
  Hyper-Parameters](/papers/2014/paper16.pdf)<br>
  Ziyu Wang, Nando De Freitas

